AFM: Docs for the April release (#29)
mulesoft/docs-functional-monitoring: modules/ROOT/pages/afm-download-upload-monitor.adoc

> = Download a Copy of a Monitor, Upload a Test Suite as a Monitor, or Both

Reviewer: See suggestion in nav.adoc

ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:page-aliases: afm-download-test.adoc, afm-download-monitor.adoc, afm-upload-monitor.adoc

:imagesdir: ../assets/images

> You can download a copy of a monitor and the upload the resulting test suite, or upload a test suite that you wrote outside of API Functional Monitoring.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can download a copy of a monitor and upload the resulting test suite, or you can upload a test suite that you wrote outside of API Functional Monitoring.
```

== Downloading a Copy of a Monitor and then Uploading the Resulting Test Suite

> When you download a copy of a monitor, the result is a _test suite_. A test suite is a bit different from a monitor. A monitor includes one test and one or more schedules, as well as information about reporters that you want to send you notifications of test failures. A test suite can include one or more tests, as well as information about reporters; it contains no schedules. Therefore, when you download a copy of a monitor, the schedules that you created for that monitor are not included in the resulting test suite.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you download a copy of a monitor, the result is a _test suite_. A test suite is a bit different from a monitor. A monitor includes one test and one or more schedules, as well as information about reporters that send you notifications of test failures. A test suite can include one or more tests, as well as information about reporters; it contains no schedules. Therefore, when you download a copy of a monitor, the schedules that you created for that monitor are not included in the resulting test suite.
```

> There are two reasons that you might want to download a copy of a monitor and then upload the resulting test suite back into AFM online:

Reviewer: To avoid starting the sentence with "There are..." as pseudo-subject...
```suggestion
Download a copy of a monitor and then upload the resulting test suite back into API Functional Monitoring online under these circumstances:
```

> * The first reason is that you might have downloaded a copy of a monitor from AFM online, edited it as a test suite, and now wish to upload it to replace the original monitor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You downloaded a copy of a monitor from API Functional Monitoring online, edited it as a test suite, and now want to upload it to replace the original monitor.
```

+

> You can do this if you want to include more than one test file in your monitor. The code view in the online interface for API Functional Monitoring does not let you create more than one test file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do this to include more than one test file in your monitor. The code view in the online interface for API Functional Monitoring does not allow you to create more than one test file.
```

+
.The process involved in uploading a monitor for this reason results in the replacement of a monitor.
image::afm-download-edit-only-upload.png[The steps involved in uploading for this reason, and the result]

> * The second reason is that you might have downloaded a copy of a monitor from AFM online, edited it as a test suite, deleted the file exchange.json that was included in the downloaded ZIP file, and now wish to upload the copy as a new monitor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You downloaded a copy of a monitor from API Functional Monitoring online, edited it as a test suite, deleted the `exchange.json` file included in the downloaded ZIP file, and now want to upload the copy as a new monitor.
```

+

> You can also create duplicate a monitor by downloading a copy of it, deleting the exchange.json file, and uploading the copy (now considered a test suite) as a new monitor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also create duplicate a monitor by downloading a copy of it, deleting `exchange.json`, and uploading the copy (now considered a test suite) as a new monitor.
```

+
.The process involved in uploading a monitor for this reason results in a new monitor.
image::afm-download-delete-upload.png[The steps involved in uploading for this reason, and the result]

== Uploading a Test Suite That You Wrote Outside of API Functional Monitoring

> You can upload a test suite a monitor if you wrote the test suite (using Behavior Driven Development (BDD), the syntax for writing blackbox-automated-testing (BAT) tests for processing in DataWeave). When you upload it into API Functional Monitoring (AFM) online in Anypoint Platform, it becomes a new monitor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can upload a test suite a monitor if you wrote the test suite using Behavior Driven Development (BDD), the syntax for writing blackbox-automated-testing (BAT) tests for processing in DataWeave. When you upload the test suite into API Functional Monitoring online in Anypoint Platform, it becomes a new monitor.
```

.The process involved in uploading a test suite results in a new monitor.
image::afm-upload-test-suite.png[The steps involved in uploading for this reason, and the result]

== Before You Begin

> * Ensure that your user ID has the "Anypoint Monitoring User" permission.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Ensure that your user ID has the Anypoint Monitoring User permission.
```

+
An administrator for your organization can grant you this permission in Anypoint Access Management.

> * Figure out the frequency at which you would like the monitor to test the endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Determine the frequency at which you would like the monitor to test the endpoints.
```

+

> The shortest interval is every fifteen minutes. You can also choose to run the monitor hourly, daily, weekly, or monthly. The schedule begins immediately after you create the monitor. You can schedule another monitor later for the same test suite that is more detailed, if you prefer. You can also modify the schedule after you create the monitor, if you want to specify any of these options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The shortest interval is every 15 minutes. You can also run the monitor hourly, daily, weekly, or monthly. The schedule begins immediately after you create the monitor. You can schedule another, more detailed monitor for the same test suite later, if you prefer. You can also modify the schedule after you create the monitor, if you want to specify any of these options:
```

> ** Set an hourly schedule to start at a certain number of minutes after the hour begins.

Reviewer: Options=nouns
```suggestion
** An hourly schedule to start at a certain number of minutes after the hour begins
```

> ** Set a daily, weekly, or monthly schedule to start at a certain time of day.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** A daily, weekly, or monthly schedule to start at a certain time of day
```

* Decide whether you would like the request messages to include additional header information.
* Obtain one of the following pieces of information, if you would like to send results of failed tests to one of these reporting tools:
+
|===
|Reporting Tool |Required Information

|NewRelic

> |License Key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|License key
```

|PagerDuty
|RoutingKey

|Slack
|Webhook

|SumoLogic
|Endpoint

|Email
|Email address
|===

== Procedures

To download a copy of a monitor:

> . In the list of your monitors, find the monitor that you want to download a copy of and select it.

Reviewer: Do we need to locate the user in the UI? Where is the list of monitors?
Used below: "At the top of the page that lists your monitors,"

. Click the three dots next to the name of the monitor and select *Download Monitor*.
+

> *Result:* A ZIP file is downloaded to your computer. The filename is `<your Anypoint Platform group ID>_<the name of the monitor>.zip`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A ZIP file is downloaded to your computer. The filename is `<your Anypoint Platform group ID>_<the name of the monitor>.zip`.
```

. At the top of the page that lists your monitors, click *Upload Monitor*.
. Upload the folder that contains your test suite.
. In the *Monitor Setup* section, specify the name of the monitor, the location from which to run the test, how often to run the test, and whether to validate SSL certificates.
.. Specify a name for the monitor.
.. Select the location from which to run the test.
+
Public locations are grouped separately from private locations in the list. You can create a private location by clicking an option in the list.
.. Specify the intervals at which you want the monitor to run the test.
+
The interval that you select begins when you click *Create Monitor* at the end of this procedure.
.. Toggle the *SSL Certificate Validation* switch off if the endpoints that your monitor will test use self-signed certificates.
+
If they do use self-signed certificates and you do not toggle this switch off, tests against those endpoints fail.
+
** If the toggle is on, all endpoints that use SSL certificates must have certificates that are signed by a trusted authority.
** If the toggle is off, all endpoints that use SSL certificates must be self-signed.
+

> To test a combination of endpoints that use trusted SSL certificates and endpoints that use self-signed certificates, create two separate monitors: one for testing the first group of endpoints, the other for testing the second group of endpoints.

Reviewer: See previous edit suggestions for this step, which is pretty redundant, long, and complicated.

. Click *Next*.
. If you want to be notified of failed tests, select one or more reporters.
. Click *Create Monitor*.

== Result

The monitor that you created is listed at the top of the list of your monitors. API Functional Monitoring begins counting down the interval of time that you selected. When the interval expires, the test is run.

After the test is complete, two things happen:

* The countdown of the interval begins again.

> * After the test runs for the first time, a summary of the results appears under *Endpoint* in the list entry for the monitor. The summary is something similar to "1 Failed" or "1 Failed/3 Passed", with the sum of the numbers in the summary indicating the number of endpoints in the test. Click the list entry for the monitor to view the details of the test results.

Reviewer: ditto prev. edit to this same text in a previously edited topic
